From glyph@twistedmatrix.com Thu, 10 Feb 2000 02:26:28 -0500 (EST)
Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2000 02:26:28 -0500 (EST)
From: Glyph Lefkowitz glyph@twistedmatrix.com
Subject: [Reality] The End Is Nigh!

Test.






From glyph@twistedmatrix.com Thu, 10 Feb 2000 02:49:26 -0500 (EST)
Date: Thu, 10 Feb 2000 02:49:26 -0500 (EST)
From: Glyph Lefkowitz glyph@twistedmatrix.com
Subject: [Reality] Hello (Again)

It's late so I'll be brief:

Yeah, it's me playing with the listserv again.  I just grabbed a list of
addresses from people who seemed actively interested (or had been at some
point) I probably left lots of people out, but I could only salvage the
archiving stuff.  List information was lost.

If you didn't know, TR has been / is being rewritten in python.  We've got
some impressive progress so far in the 'reality' module.  Check it out (it
even parses your old TR maps).

I hope to keep most development discussions on this list in the future,
unless they specifically involve plot stuff for one of the games.  Since
the engine isn't done being rewritten yet, we've probably got a while to
go on this one =).

Anyway, pytyon has enabled me to do more with less, so although I've got
less time these days it seems like I'm getting vastly more development
done.  Hopefully some more code will start showing up soon... people who
are new can feel free to introduce their own interests on their own...

---
Even if you can deceive people about a product through misleading statements,
sooner or later the product will speak for itself.
- Hajime Karatsu






From glyph@twistedmatrix.com Fri, 11 Feb 2000 20:31:03 -0500 (EST)
Date: Fri, 11 Feb 2000 20:31:03 -0500 (EST)
From: Glyph Lefkowitz glyph@twistedmatrix.com
Subject: [Reality] a more fun map

Yo, Check it:

inheritance.py is in cvs now.  I took a few hours to hand-convert this
from the .por stuff. It's most of the rooms that we want, and their
positions; I'm sure that we'll find stuff that needs to be fixed, but it's
a pretty good mock-up.

Why did I put it into a file like this, and not a reality pickle?

Well, because I'd like it to be easily patchable, and I'd like people to
be able to script the creation of things if it's expedient to do so.  And,
well:

glyph@helix:~/cvstrees/matrix/reality% du -h inheritance.*
36k	inheritance.py
44k	inheritance.rp

It's a bit smaller and not binary =).

The webpage about this is at 

http://www.twistedmatrix.com/reality/inheritance/

if you don't know what it is.  We are going to be doing this as a 'dress
rehearsal' for doing divunal, since it has a much better defined
scope.  If you want to start coding stuff for puzzles, please let me
know: we have most of a design document lying around somewhere and I
should whip it into shape.

However, basic verbs like look/move etc should be played with first; and
we need locations to be slightly more featureful than they currently
are... so this is not a top priority currently.  Just wanted to let
everyone know it is there.

---
Even if you can deceive people about a product through misleading statements,
sooner or later the product will speak for itself.
- Hajime Karatsu






